01-03-22:
The first meeting went smoothly. Everyone is super friendly and helpful. After a short meeting, we were assigned a room where we will build our project. 
We received additional monitors, laptops, and all the materials. During the provided lunch, we met two students who will be doing an internship at Thomas More in Geel. After lunch, we discussed the project. A general schedule was drawn up.

We have been given access to the GitHub environment of the university. There are some problems with the login credentials but these should be resolved during the week.


02-03-22:
This morning we arrived on campus early. The plan of action was the biggest focus. We put together a basic PowerPoint where we explain everything. The university uses a proprietary chat system that they use for security reasons. We were also given access to this environment. We will contact our mentor through this system.
We have received three different temperature sensors. We are going to have to select the best one. We started testing the first sensor. This one uses I2C. 


03-03-22:
Today we started programming the sensors. We have three different sensors to test out. We have chosen to test the two sensors with I2C first. The manufacturer of the sensors has very little documentation on the sensors. As a result, we have had many difficulties reading the sensors. We tried to implement an existing library but this does not work as desired. Therefore we decided to read out the I2C bus itself and calculate the temperature. We have not succeeded in reading the data. We have had some problems with the ESP32. The pinout on the back is very unclear and also cannot be found online from this particular board. 

We also took advantage of the free lunch for the first time!


04-03-22:
We continued to read out the I2C data. After lunch, we had a meeting with Vincent where we discussed our progress on the project. We addressed the difficulties and set future goals. After the meeting, Jeroen had his first hands-on with the network part of the project. I did some more writing on the code which is working at the end of the day.


05-03-22:
We visited the open day at the university and met some students of IUT.


07-03-22:
Lian: Today I started to make a formal document where I compare the different sensors. The document is almost finalized. This will be shared with Vincent, together we will decide which sensor to use. 

Jeroen: Today I discovered the painless library on GitHub. It works on the Feather32 we brought from home. I have not been able to get it working on the ESP-32 modules we are using for this project. I am getting a panicked core error that is hard to trace back. 

We got access to the GitLab environment of the university, we will be using this for our project.


08-03-22:
Lian: I finalized the document of the sensor comparison and send it to Vincent. After that, I started with the installation of a Home Assistant on the HP Prodesk. I was able to boot from a USB drive. I have not been able to transfer this to the internal drive. When I try this the system becomes unusable.

Jeroen: Today I continued to work on optimizing the connection between the different ESPs. I also tried to combine the libraries to also make requests towards Home Assistant.


09-03-22:
Lian: Vincent asked me to make a section about the power consumption of the sensors. After that started working on the RestAPI of Home Assistant. I used Postman for troubleshooting. When everything was working, I used the API to send sensor data from the ESP to Home Assistant. Here we can make a comparison of the received data we get. Two sensors are operational.

Jeroen: Today and yesterday I continued to work on optimizing the connection between the different ESPs. I also tried to combine the libraries to make requests towards Home Assistant.


10-03-22:
Lian: I started with the programming of the last sensor. All the sensors are visible in Home Assistant. Graphs can plot the measurements so we can compare the sensors. After this was done, I helped Jeroen with the mesh network and the API Post. I discovered that the use of wifi and PainlessMesh cannot be combined. We will try MQTT. I set up Home Assistant as an MQTT broker and tested a client. After some difficulties, I managed to display sensor data on Home Assistant with the use of MQTT. We will add this to the PainlessMesh code.

Jeroen: Today I made a new slave so we can test the network. I tried to connect the master to the API of Home Assistant. We discovered that we cannot make a wifi connection while making a mesh network. Now we are trying MQTT.


11-03-22:
Lian: I started with the MQTT communication to Home Assistant. After some research, I found an example that makes it possible to use MQTT in combination with PainlessMesh. After I got this working I send the code to Jeroen so he could work this out further. Then I focused on the sensor data of Home Assistant. There was a small problem with the timestamps of the. data because the time of the machine was not set right. I accessed the bios to correct the time of the system. After this, I installed Influx DB and Grafana on Home Assistant to improve the visualization of the sensor data. Now we can compare the three sensors. 

Jeroen: Today I worked on the MQTT and Painless Mesh example to make a first publish to Home Assistant. I worked on Full-duplex communication between ESP - MQTT - AH.

We had our meeting with Maartje, Sophie, and Vincent. Afterward, we had our meeting with Vincent. We discussed some difficulties and important points. We set our goals for next week.


14-03-22:
Lian: I started by analyzing the data I collected during the weekend. All the sensors seem to follow the same trendline. The BME280 does show some abnormal measurements compared to the other sensors. I started working on Home Assistant. Home Assistant still needed the flash drive to boot. I Searched for a solution and eventually found a nice guide. I made a bootable ubuntu drive. It is possible to use ubuntu from the flash drive without installing the OS on the internal drive. Using this method, I was able to flash the internal nvme SSD. After lunch I restored the backup, I made of Home Assistant. Then I started working on the code of the mesh network. I have not been able to get measurements in Home Assistant.

Jeroen: sick


15-03-22:
Lian: Today I started with researching the possibility to make home assistant an access point. We can use the wifi card of the hp machine, so we don’t have to rely on another network. I made a mistake and had to reinstall Home Assistant because of this. I am not able to enable the wifi card. The wifi card is detected when using hwinfos I have not been able to resolve this problem. Home assistant is using the Alpine Linux distribution as its base. 

Jeroen: Today, after a day of absence I worked on the MQTT connection between the Control System and the root ESP.  I am checking on a publish and a subscribe key to receive and send messages. This data is displayed on the Home Assistant. I also checked the basics of the root-principal and hard-coded some slaves and a root.


16-03-22:
Lian: After a night of some research at home and a message from Vincent I decided to give the AP another try. I found out that there was no driver installed. After the installation of some packages, a restart is required. After this restart, all the packages seem to have disappeared. I tried this multiple times with the same result. Tomorrow I will try to install a supervised version of Home Assistant on top of Ubuntu or another distribution. 

Jeroen: Today I worked on the API Request that needs to be up and running simultaneously with the Painless Mesh library. I found out that those 2 are not best friends and they often give library errors. I figured out a workaround for these problems and solved the issues and got everything up and running. Tomorrow I'll try and send some sensor data to the Control System.


17-03-22:
Lian: I started with reading the supervised Home Assistant install documentation. I decided to use the Debian distribution. After the installation of Debian, I followed the guide provided by Home Assistant. This process was not very easy. I had to reinstall Debian because of an error. I got further the second time but came across a DNS error (probably because of the network configuration). I used my mobile data to download the Home Assistant software. Home Assistant was finally up and running.

Jeroen: Today I worked on pushing my work on Git. I am still stuck on this part and will finish this tomorrow. I checked if the Mesh is still operational and working and if the nodes are responding as needed. I also made the post request work in combination with the painless mesh library. I'm ready for the meeting tomorrow with Vincent.


18-03-22:
Lian: After the successful installation of Home Assistant I started on the access point using Home Assistant. I had to install some drivers and packages to get the wifi card running. I also used the “Hassio access point” addon. When the wifi card was finally detected I was able to set up the access point. We removed the router from our network, we will be using the home assistant access point. We had some problems connecting the mesh network to the access point, we will have to search for a solution next week. We talked about our progress and we set our goals during our meeting.

Jeroen: Today I worked on the Painless vs wifi Library to send API requests to the Home Assistant. I also worked on the Root configuration where the root needs to be determined by the mesh system. We have to make sure every node has the capability to send requests to the Home Assistant. After the meeting with Vincent, we were wondering if REST API/MQTT is the best way to go.


21-03-22:
Lian: Today I started with the plan of action. We already made a version, I used a new layout and adjusted a few things. We will present this plan this week. After that, I started on the documentation for the installation of Home Assistant and the AP. This document will be written in markdown language so we can easily add code blocks

Jeroen: Today I looked into the root mesh network part where I was investigating which technique would be best to discover which node is the best root node. I discovered that WIFI libs and the PainlessMesh don't cooperate very easily. I tested different techniques and protocols to see which one would work in the future for our project. I also added my code to the GitLab repository.


22-03-22;
Lian: I continued with the installation guide. I used the second desktop to replicate the installation en document everything. After the installation was successful I wrote a full installation guide for Home Assistant and the access point in markdown language. I pushed everything to GitLab. I started helping Jeroen after that. I did not make any progress on the mesh network. It seems there is a problem with the combination of the wifi library and the painless mesh library.

Jeroen: Today I worked on the same thing as yesterday. Vincent asked us to work out the 2 ways of communicating with the Control System, MQTT, and REST API. I was working all day to get the HTTPClient library and Painless Library up and running at the same time. It seems that they are not best friends and they are very hard to configure in 1 program. I also did some root algorithm thinking about when does each node has to configure itself as a node or root.


23-03-22:
Lian: Today I continued on the mesh network. We are unable to use the REST API in combination with the Painless mesh library. We tried using the wifi router again. We had an IP collision with the router and Home Assistant. After resolving this problem we were still not able to make a connection with Home Assistant. I tried switching to the Arduino SDK with no success.

Jeroen: Today Lian and I worked on the communication towards the Control System. I discovered a Library (from the same author as the painless lib)that should be able to communicate as and gateway/node to communicate with the control system. Unfortunately, this has not worked for now. It won't connect to the right network and cannot display the active nodes. We are working very hard to discover and investigate the way to communicate with the Control System.


24-03-22: 
We found the problem that caused our error!!!! In Platformio we are automatically using the latest version of the painlessMesh network. Last week a new update was released. There is a problem that keeps u from using this in combination with the wifi library. The AP is working as intended.

Lian: After solving the issue I started working on connecting the sensors to the mesh network. I am still using a predefined root node at this moment. I made a JSON format for sending the data between nodes based on senML. The root node uses the REST API to send the data to Home Assistant.

Jeroen: After two days I discovered that the PainlessMesh released a new library version that was working against us. After a few minor adjustments, everything worked as it should and luckily we were able to continue quickly. I started working on the root allocation algorithm and now I have a good foundation to work on.


25-03-22:
Lian: I checked the mesh network to see if everything was still good. I made some small changes to the presentation for Maartje. At 10 am we presented our plan of action to Maartje. We got feedback and decided to research the possibility of making a PCB. I found out that the Adafruit HUZZAH 32 Feather is an open-source design. I will use Eagle to design a PCB based on the Feather board. After lunch, we had our weekly meeting with Vincent and Stephane. We discussed some topics and set goals for next week. I will focus on the configuration of the nodes next week.

Jeroen: Today we had our 'Plan Of Action' Meeting with Maartje to discuss the current process, she was very happy. After that, I started working on the root algorithm to determine the root of the mesh network. After that, we had our meeting with Vincent & Stephane where we discussed the MatterMost board and the items on there. We discussed the workflow for the upcoming week. After that, I worked on the root algorithm and reliability tests of the painlessmesh Library.


28-03-22:
Lian: Today I started with the setup window for the ESP nodes. When you plug in your ESP it will first set up its own AP, you can connect with this and give your node a name. This name will be used in the post request and Home Assistant. You currently have to browse to an IP address. I am working on a captive window that will pop up when you connect to the AP. I will also try to write the configuration to the EEPROM so nothing is lost when rebooting the node.

Jeroen: I made a few functions (bool checkRoot(), size_t getRootId(protocol::NodeTree nodeTree)) to check the root and get the rootID, 
I made the first prototype about this and hopefully I will get the root and assign the root to a certain node. I am making a comparison between WiFi and RRSI to check for the best connection.


29-03-22:
Lian: I finished the captive portal for the configuration early in the morning. After that, I started helping Jeroen with the root allocation. I decided to try a different concept so we wouldn't be doing double work. I will try to select a root based on the wifi signal's RSSI (Received Signal Strenght Index). I will set up a JSON so the nodes can share their signal strength and select a root node.

Jeroen: Today Lian and I worked on the root algorithm. This is the tricky part of the whole Mesh setup, I worked on a script that every node pings the Control System to get the response time and make a root decision based on the average time of response. We made some first drafts and sketches on paper to visualize the network for ourselves. We combined some code to be up-to-date with each other and make sure we had the same code.


30-03-22:
Lian: I continued on the root allocation algorithm. I have a working concept that I am currently testing. There are a lot of bugs that need to be solved. The mesh network can decide which root has the best connection to Home Assistant. When this root is disconnected there will be another root selected. I have a few problems when sending API requests to Home Assistant. I will try to get a fully functioning demo for our meeting on Friday.

Jeroen: For today Lian and I joined in to work on the Root Allocation. We were discussing how this would be the best way, we talked about a few options and protocols to accomplish this. After Lian got a good head start I start working on the documentation of the Mesh network sics Vincent told us this is very important and has to be done and finished after each step. The next step is to finish the first part of the documentation and push this to GitLab.


31-03-22:
Lian: Today I started with splitting the code into two parts, so it is easier to manage. I have one file with functions that need to be called and one file that manages the mesh network. I continued making the mesh network more reliable. there are still a few bugs but the nodes figure out what the best root is given enough time. I will let the network run overnight to check the reliability. There are still some problems when connecting to the API. It is more stable than yesterday but still not as I want it. The mesh will be ready for a quick demo but it will need some improvement.

Jeroen: I worked further on my first documentation of the mesh system. After I finished that I published it to GitLab. Then I started working with the notifications and alerts, I can now send alerts to devices through a service called 'notify.event'. Tomorrow I will finish this and start working with variables and priority alerts.


01-04-22:
Lian: I prepared the demo for the meeting in the morning. I was having a lot of connection issues. Home Assistant was not running stable, so the access point would lose its connection. We tried solving the issue but we had to (speedrun) reinstall Home Assistant from scratch. Home Assistant was running but after we reinstalled our backup the problem reappeared. This made our demo during our meeting with Vincent difficult. During our meeting, we discussed our next steps. I installed an older backup that hopefully should work. I will leave it running for the weekend so we can test the reliability.

Jeroen: The week went by very quickly, today I worked on flashing Home Assistant to hopefully remove all the bugs that were building up in Home Assistant during testing. After a clean install we installed a backup we made (from 30-3). After that I grabbed the next item on the list 'EEPROM saving' this technique is used to store data in the chip so that it can always be used even after and before flashing the device. After this Lian and I made sure we were ready for the demo.


04-04-22:
Lian: I spend the whole day debugging Home Assistant. The home assistant keeps crashing after a given time. I have reinstalled Home Assistant a couple of times with no success. At first, I thought it was a problem with the access point. I used a fresh install and didn't install the AP but the problem still occurred. I will try to install an older version of Home Assistant tomorrow.

Jeroen: Today I took a look at EEPROM Flash saving where data can be stored internally. This would prevent the reconfiguration of a (new) connected node. This library/protocol works with bytes to work with the stored data, this needs to be read and transformed into a readable string.


05-04-22:
Lian: I continued with the error of yesterday. I tried everything to get Home Assistant to a reliable state. I tried installing older versions with no success. I have not been able to install an older version of the Home Assistant supervisor. Because it was a core error I only reinstalled an older version of Home Assistant core. I even tried the other desktop machine but had the same outcome. I will try installing an older version of the supervisor tomorrow. If this doesn't work I will try a Raspberry Pi to see if I have the same problem.

Jeroen: Today I finished the EEPROM saving where a String can be written and read in a function. This is now implemented in the code such that a new node with an existing configuration doesn't need to be reconfigured and can be moved around in the building. It was a bit difficult because the write and read of EEPROM happen in bits and bytes but I managed to write a function that can convert and write and String.


06-04-22:
Lian: I finally figured out what the problem was. The host machine would enter sleep mode after some time... Very weird because we didn't have any problems with our previous installs. I disabled the sleep mode and did some testing. After that, I tried to implement Jeroens EEPROM code in the main code. Because the spiffs file system uses the EEPROM it was difficult to implement. It is recommended to not use the EEPROM library in combination with spiffs. The solution is using a .txt file to save your data. I also added a button to the schematic. When this button is pressed the data saved on the file is cleared so you can choose a new name.

Jeroen: Today I finished the EEPROM reading and I have sent this to Lian to finish it. After that, I started making the first .md for mesh security and looking up some important statements about the security in a mesh system. After lunch, I started working on alert sending with SMTP but Home Assistant cannot ping the outside so that is something for tomorrow to fix!


07-04-22:
Lian: I did some more testing on the code for the sensor. I made some small changes that improved the reliability. I also changed the code so the measurements wouldn't be broadcast to all the nodes of the mesh network. A single message will be sent to the root node. When the root node loses connection the network will heal itself faster. I also made some changes to the Home Assistant guide. 

Jeroen: Today I worked further on the mesh documentation with the feedback given by Vincent. I split the different documents and pushed them to Github. Today I also took a look at the WiFi security. AES protocol would be the best for this project. I also worked on the alert sending with Notify and the Gmail servers. There are some problems with the VLAN. Home Assistant can't reach the outside, we are currently figuring this out with the IT team. 


08-04-22:
Lian: Today I started with checking the sensors. Everything seems to run pretty stably. After that, I read all the documentation. I corrected some errors and made some changes. I installed InfluxDB and Grafana again so I can run an extended test this weekend. We had our weekly meeting where we discussed everything. After our meeting with Vincent, I started researching some components we want to use for our PCB. 

Jeroen: Today we worked further on the alert sending with SMTP and we were prepared for the meeting with Vincent, also we did some more Root Allocation testing to make sure we were ready for the test week. In the meeting with Vincent, we came across some important items that we need to configure in the next week such as package update, docker, ...


11-04-22:
Lian: I started by checking the test that ran this weekend. Everything seems to run very well with five nodes. We will be expanding this soon! I did some more research about the components we want to use. I also continued writing the documentation about the code. I decided to add comments to the code first before continuing on the documentation.

Jeroen: Today I dropped off my friends at the airport because they were staying for the weekend. I worked a few hours at home to look into the stuff that Lian worked on today, I checked the MatterMost board and started some research for the approach for tomorrow to have an efficient start to the week. In the few days to come, I'll be working longer at the university to make sure I work 35h/week.


12-04-22:
Lian: I made a new presentation for the intermediate presentation we have to give this week. We will be talking about our progress and our goals. After this was finished I continued writing the comments in the code. This was done at the end of the day. I will be reviewing this with Vincent on Friday.

Jeroen: Today I worked on the automated secret file. This file will generate the 'secret.h' file which is used in the main program. When you run this code you will be prompted with a few questions that will result in the end file. This is written in Python. Also, I took a first look at cronjobs and tested some of them and I am learning what the format of cron-time is.


13-04-22:
Lian: I started making the schematic so we can make a printed circuit board. I based my design on the Adafruit Huzzah 32 feather. I made some changes to make it fit our purpose. I also chose to use a usb-c connector. The PCB will be fully SMD soldered. We had to make sure all the parts are available from JLC PCB. The BME680 was not in stock so we chose the BME280 instead. The schematic was almost done at the end of the day.

Jeroen: Today I finished the cronjobs where the updates can be performed automatically without having to do this manually. I discovered how to use cron time and how this is set up. Also, I took a look into making an add-on for checking if the configured node name is already been used.


14-04-22:
Lian: I finished the schematic and started designing the PCB. It was difficult to fit everything on a two-layer PCB. We have a lot of SMD components. It was my goal to make the PCB as small as possible. I laid out everything as well as I could. I used the autoroute to lay out the tracks, this took a couple of tries. After everything was connected I imported everything into JLCPCB and found out that our voltage regulator was not in stock. I chose a different regulator(which was a lot bigger) and redesigned the PCB. I added some logos to the backside. The PCB is ready to be ordered.

Jeroen: Today I worked further on the add-on, this is configured with docker (Dockerfile and .yaml) and can be deployed inside Home Assistant to perform automated functions on the system. My add-on checks of the ID exist in the system and can print out messages to the system for debugging purposes. For the further, this plug-in needs to report back to the nodes.


15-04-22:
Lian: In the morning we prepared our presentation for Maartje. We gave our update on the project and discussed some topics. After our presentation, I started soldering all the sensors to prepare for our large-scale test next week. After lunch, we had an extended meeting with Vincent and Stephane. We discussed our progress and our next steps. We did a code review, we got some points to improve on. All our components for next week also arrived today!

Jeroen: Today was already the end of the week. Time flies when you are having fun. In the morning we were preparing for the presentation for Maartje where we discussed all the topics and items we have done so far. She was very happy with the results! After that, we made sure we were ready for the demo for Vincent and Stephane. We made a code review and set up the points for next week. Next week the big scaling test is coming up! See you next week.


18-04-22:
National holiday.


19-04-22:
Lian: I started with assembling all the sensors and deploying these in batches. The first batch of nine sensors was deployed and operational before lunch. After lunch, I assembled and programmed the rest of the sensors. The setup of the sensors is really easy and fast. All the sensors worked as desired. We discovered that there were two root notes at one point. This didn't impact performance at all because we still receive all the messages. I kept two nodes with me to test the MQTT connection so we can send messages from Home Assistant to the nodes.

Jeroen: 


20-04-22:
Lian: We discovered that the computers we use to supply the sensors enter sleep mode after some time. So we cannot run the large-scale test overnight. I gave MQTT another try but it won't work when we have a connection to Home Assistant and a mesh network running. I switched to hosting a restful API server on the root node. This way we will be able to send messages from Home Assistant to the root node. The root node will, in turn, send a message to the desired node. After some coding, I got this working. I still have to do some things in regards to security. Tomorrow I will focus on the cleanup of the code. Splitting the code into more files to keep the main code as clean and simple as possible.

Jeroen: Today I worked on the node exists add-on. I worked on the python algorithm that checks the incoming node names and the changing node names to make sure there are no duplicates. This modeling and scripting take a lot of effort because this is an important part.


21-04-22:
Lian: I started with splitting and cleaning up the code. We tested the API request to reset the node through Home Assistant. After lunch, I decided to start again from the last GitLab version because the code was not working anymore. I managed to get rid of all the errors. There are a few bugs in the code that require some rewriting of the code. I will continue with this tomorrow.

Jeroen: Today was a coding day where I was testing the homemade plugin which checks for duplicate node names and/or chipIDs. This took me a whole day and it is finished for 90%, tomorrow I can finish this and I can show a small demo.


22-04-22:
Lian: We started by turning on all the computers to make sure we had our large-scale test running. After that, I continued with the code. I had to do some rewriting to make the code work. I finished this right before our meeting. We had our meeting with vincent where we discussed our progress. I had a few extra hours left off last week, so I stopped a bit earlier today.

Jeroen: Today was the day my parents would come and visit for the weekend so we made sure we were ready for the meeting with Vincent and Stephane. We had everything plugged in and set up in the multiple rooms so we could do a good demo with all the ESPs and sensors combined. After lunch, we had some talks about the next week to come and what is on the list of "to-do". Next week we are having a week off but we will work from home!

During our week off:
Lian: I Implemented multithreading so the mesh network can run more stable. The mesh network gets its own routine so we don’t have to interrupt it when we need to execute other tasks. I also wrote some more comments to explain all the extra functions needed. I added a function that checks if the key is in the JSON before reading. Otherwise, the ESP will crash if the key doesn’t exist. I also changed a few things on the PCB and made the order. The PCB should arrive in the next couple of weeks. I was contacted by JLC PCB, there were a few stock issues with the SMT assembly. I selected some new parts and checked the orientation of all the components. I did some research on Doxygen, it’s not as straightforward as I thought. It will require a lot more time than anticipated. I also added the basic functionality of debug levels. This has to be expanded and implemented further. The PCB is fully assembled and on its way to France! 

Jeroen: 


02-05-22: 
Lian: I fully implemented the debug levels in the code. I will have to test this tomorrow. 


03-05-22:
Lian: I started with testing the code I wrote during our week off. There were some mistakes but they were resolved fairly easily. The mesh network was very unreliable. The root kept crashing "Core  1 panic'ed (LoadProhibited)". I discovered that this was because of multithreading. I removed multithreading and the code worked as intended. I also made a new library for the BME280 when our PCB arrives.


04-05-22:
Lian: I started with the declaration of the sensor so it is possible to choose between the BME280 and the BME680. After that, I did some more research on Doxygen. I installed all things needed for Doxygen and started documenting all the functions in the code. I ran Doxygen and open the generated HTML. I pushed everything to GitLab. I will expand this with some markdown files later. I also made a Fritzing schematic so it is easy to replicate for people with less experience in electronics.


05-05-22:
Lian: Today I decided to correct the code. We got a lot of suggestions during our code review with Vincent. I decided to make a Node class where we store all the information about the node like nodeID, RSSI, ... I also decided to redo the networkScan function. We don't have to connect to the Access point to measure the RSSI. We only have to scan for the Access point. This will relieve some pressure from the Home Assistant AP addon. 


06-05-22:
Lian: I made some last-minute changes to the code. We had our weekly meeting with Vincent where we discussed the schedule of our last month. We will give a quick presentation next week where we give a small summary of our project. We left a bit early so we could spend some time on the PCB that arrived today!! We discovered some problems that we will have to address on Monday.


09-05-22:
Lian: I started by trying to figure out the problems with the PCB. It seems that the problem has something to do with the UART chip. The school was a victim of a cyber attack. We had no access to the internet or internal servers like GitLab and Mattermost. Sophie told us we could leave earlier if we wanted to. We decided to leave after lunch and work from home so we at least had internet access. I decided to work on the presentation for Vincent on Friday. I had to order an FTDI adapter for the PCB. When this arrives I will try to get the chips programmed.

Jeroen: Today I finally finished the add-on that can check the name and report back a reset of the EEPROM of the node, during the attack at the ethernet I was not able to deploy this to Home Assitant so that will be a task for tomorrow. I also did some research about the SMTP and alert sending part.


10-05-22:
Lian: Yesterday evening we received an email from Sophie telling us that we will not have internet access today. We decided to work from home in our collaboration room where we still have wifi. I continued on the presentation for Vincent. This will be a technical presentation with a lot of details. I also expanded the Doxygen documentation, all the elements of the code are fully described.

Jeroen: Today I assisted Lian a little with the Home Assistant part and since we have no access to the network and we are working from home I did some documentation about the custom add-on inside Home Assistant.


11-05-22:
Lian: Today we continued working from home where we have an internet connection. I checked all the files for spelling mistakes. The Doxygen should be finished. We will do a code review on Friday.

Jeroen: Today we discovered we have no internet as well so we had to stay home and do some things at home. I did some research for tomorrow and I started gathering information about the whole project to present in Belgium!


12-05-22:
Lian: The FTDI adaptor I ordered arrived yesterday. I tried getting the PCB working with little success. I was able to get the esp connected and flashed. The esp entered a reboot loop once the code started running. I tried using the Arduino IDE. After a few tries, I managed to get a blink sketch running. I converted the Platformio project to an Adruino project to be able to upload the code through the Arduino IDE. The esp entered the same reboot cycle. I went back to the Blink sketch, when I added one line the esp entered the same reset loop. I have not been able to get more out of the PCB.

Jeroen: Today was the first day we worked a whole day at the university. I started to download the Home Assistant application to send alerts to this app since we have no access to the SMTP during the network attack. I can send local push notifications when values are getting too big or too small. Scripting in the .yaml file is done through jinja, this language is new to me but I can get along quite well with it. I try to make the alerts as dynamic as possible so that it is easy to apply and does not need many changes.

13-05-22:
Lian: I started with finishing the presentation for Vincent. I also did some last changes to the Doxygen file to prepare for our meeting. I also finished the 3D drawing for the enclosure. After lunch, we started setting up the mesh network for next week. We had a long meeting with Vincent. We gave a small presentation and did a code review.

Jeroen: Today was meeting day, I worked on an add-on that can send POSTS to a Home Assistant automation webhook that sends a push notification on the mobile phone. For this, you need to have the app installed on your phone.  After the meeting with Vincent, we discovered that this automation is only for 1 device so I need to take a look into that. We also did some talk about the last finishing weeks of our internship. Unfurtonaly we still don't have access to GitLab and Mattermost but hopefully, this will be fixed in the upcoming days. Bon weekend!


16-05-22:
lian: I started with flashing all the nodes we have to make sure they are running the latest code. The nodes are ready for all the demos we will give during our teacher's visit. I also made a new KeyNote that we will present during the visit. I used Vincent's feedback to make sure people with no knowledge about electronics would be able to understand everything. I also added a blinking led to the node when it is in its setup mode.

Jeroen: Today is already Monday. Today I  mapped and designed the overview of the university for the presentation to show the data flow of the mesh system. I also started on a Home-Assitant frontend button to reset a node from Home Assistant. Hopefully, we will have access to Gitlab and Mattermost!


17-05-22:
Lian: The mesh network was still running very reliable. I decided to write some documentation about the root selection code. I described all the main steps that have to be taken. I made diagrams for every step to make it as clear as possible. I will expand this further tomorrow.

Jeroen: Today I worked on a push button on the Home Assistant frontend that is able to send a node to reset request from Home Assistant if the node needs another name and there is no collusion. This was harder than I suspected but I think I can manage to get it done before the presentation. The button sends a Curl request to the root node and the root node sends the message to the corresponding node.


18-05-22: We met Maartje en Jochen in the morning and showed them around our building and workplace. We had a nice tour together with Sophie. After lunch, we decided to visit the center of Bordeaux.


19-05-22: We set up the mesh network and checked the presentation. We presented our project to Maartje and Jochen as well as the teachers and staff members of the university. We gave a small demo and talked about the project. After lunch, we decided to head to the center and live like the real Bordelais together with our teachers.


20-05-22: 
Lian: Our teachers left Bordeaux. I continued writing the documentation for the code. I also started with the reflection document. It was a long day of documentation.

Jeroen: Today we started the documentation that needs to be done for our school back in Belgium, I started working on my own reflection (technical and personal) and I started checking if I had all the exhibits for the GitHub we are going to make Monday.
